#### Meeting from: August 17th, 2022

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Nathan LaFreniere (@nlf)
- Philip Harrison (@feelepxyz)
- Rick Markins (@rxmarbles)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- Brian DeHamer (@bdehamer)
- Zach Steindler (@steiza)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
	1. Introduction(s)
1. **Issue**: [#622 [RRFC] include context that a module is overridden in npm ls](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/622) - @bnb
1. **PR**: [#593 RFC: Only Registry Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/593) - @thescientist13
1. **PR**: [#626 RFC for linking packages to their source and build](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/626) - @feelepxyz
1. **PR**: [#23 Add Singleton Packages RFC.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/23) - @usergenic

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#622 [RRFC] include context that a module is overridden in npm ls](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/622) - @bnb
- @nlf
  - have now added this context

#### **PR**: [#593 RFC: Only Registry Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/593) - @thescientist13
- @darcyclarke
  - Audit Policies (WIP) RFC: https://hackmd.io/RxIFqXTaRPeqKp9xokZZMA
- @thescients13
  - updated RFC to use `npm query`
  - can be re-reviewed
  - will ensure they can follow up

#### **PR**: [#626 RFC for linking packages to their source and build](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/626) - @feelepxyz
- @feelepxyz
  - many comments asking about how to allow personal machines to sign packages
  - also, people have asked about pre-built binaries
- @mylesborins
  - there is an existing RFC for "Distributions"
  - supporting pre-built binaries seems out of scope because this usecases are for things that happen post-install (ref. https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/519 Package Distributions is a separate, orthogonal)
  - requirements for building in CI
- @ljharb
  - getting conflicting messages in the conversation on the RFC
  - _assuming_ that the process must be built on a trusted system for the provance to be considered a 
  - things like pre-builds would also have to be trusted prior
  - what thought has been put into server-side behaivour approach (vs. putting this infront of the end-user)
- @mylesborins
  - do not want vendor lock-in
  - want to work with third-parties
  - want to help solve the auditability of the build/source of the package
  - this does not prevent malicious software from being published
  - this work makes auditing streamlined/easy to do
  - what's important is the third-party
- @ljharb
  - want to propose an altered order of prioritization
  - put something in sigstore about the package today
    - unresolve: how do you trust the claim is correct
  - then work on way to allow people to self-sign
  - then work on gradular backfill for top `X` impactful packages
  - goal here seems to be, find a way to reliably measure if the code in the tarball is accurate to the repo
  - why is "how" it was created important?
- @mylesborins
  - most packages aren't 1:1 with their source counterpart
- @steiza
  - seems like 3 goals:
    - 1. create public audit log as to how something was built
    - 2. linking a package back to it's source
    - 3. distributing package signatures to a third-party
  - do need to consider what happens when the link/sourcer is deleted
  - not sure who is responsible for validating this
- @feelepxyz
  - have been thinking about how to create this signature outside of npm (ex. publishes machine)
  - seems to guarantee if npm is compromised
  - this work also outlines how identities are handled
  - this also lays the groundwork for any future 
  - creates a vendor neutral space
  - want to also bubble up the idea of expanding the types of events we add into the ledger
  - OpenSSF is looking at standardizing the types of events
- @steiza 
  - not super familiar with Rekor but the OpenSSF/Sigstore teams are looking into how to mask data for security/safety/compliance with GDPR/DMCS-type requests

#### **PR**: [#23 Add Singleton Packages RFC.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/23) - @usergenic
- Will keep this on our radar
