#### Meeting from: August 3rd, 2022

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Nathan Fritz (@fritzy)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
-
-
-
-

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Discussion**: Auditing SLSA provenance
1. **Issue**: [#620 [RRFC] npm init add a new question: type &#x3D;&gt; &quot;commonjs/module&quot;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/620) - @aladdin-add
1. **Issue**: [#619 [RRFC] New --ci flag for npm outdated command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/619) - @khalyomede
1. **PR**: [#618 RFC: &#x60;npm debug&#x60; command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/618) - @about-code
1. **Issue**: [#615 [RRFC] exportable config definitions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/615) - @fritzy
1. **Issue**: [#612 [RRFC] Support --cpu and --os flag to specify platform specific install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/612) - @archfz
1. **Issue**: [#610 [RRFC] Parallel script execution when value is set to an array of text.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/610) - @EvanCarroll
1. **PR**: [#5000 feat: add npm query cmd](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/5000) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#595 Propose backwards-compatible improvements to compression](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/595) - @EvanHahn
1. **PR**: [#593 Only Registry Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/593) - @thescientist13
1. **PR**: [#23 Add Singleton Packages RFC.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/23) - @usergenic


### Need Ratification
- **PR**: [#591 RFC: Registry-scoped keyfile / certfile credential options](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/591) - `@jenseng`
- **PR**: [#564 RFC: Dependency Selector Syntax &amp; &#x60;npm query&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/564) - `@darcyclarke`
- **Issue**: [#438 [RRFC] Add libc fields to select optionalDependencies should be installed or skipped](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/438) - `@Brooooooklyn`

### Notes

#### **Discussion**: Auditing SLSA provenance
- @ruyadorno 
  - @laurent open source security team
  - opportunity to leverge the work at Google/SLSA to leverage this work
- @laurent
  - do not trust github/other ci builds
  - involved in builders
  - have native builders running on GitHub
  - use reusable workflows
- @ljharb
  - this work is focused on tieing builds back to packages
  - this seems impossible given all the dependencies build processes will have

#### **Issue**: [#612 [RRFC] Support --cpu and --os flag to specify platform specific install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/612) - @archfz
- @ljharb
  - trying to determine the usecase  
- @archfz 
  - using wine 
  - wants to opt-out of the check
  - suggests we wait for more community feedback
- @ruyadorno 
  - this could be tied together with the package distributions RFC
- @wraithgar
  - if this is only related to the cpu/os checks & being able to avoid them then it's well scoped - if this bleeds into node-gyp config that is likely out of scope of `npm`

#### **Issue**: [#620 [RRFC] npm init add a new question: type &#x3D;&gt; &quot;commonjs/module&quot;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/620) - @aladdin-add
- @ljharb
  - buggest problem with `type: "module"` is that people _think_ they **need** to change the type to be able to use ESM
  - having this as a question would cause way more confusion
- @ruyadorno
  - doesn't agree with the sentiment
- @ljharb
  - `.mjs` files = ESM & don't have to change anything in `pakcage.json`
- @wraithgar
  - questions we ask today in `npm init` are locked-in
  - future questions are all available by definining a separate install module/config
- @ljharb
  - would love a future addition/question to init (ex. "are you a package or a project?" ie. are you a maintainer or consumer)
- @ruyadorno 
  - ex. `npm pkg` to use 

#### **PR**: [#5000 feat: add npm query cmd](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/5000) - @ruyadorno
- @ruyadorno 
  - PR has been merged
  - remove agenda label 

#### **Issue**: [#615 [RRFC] exportable config definitions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/615) - @fritzy
- @wraithgar
  - just need to consolidate configs
- @darcyclarke
  - migrating to statusboard 

#### **Issue**: [#619 [RRFC] New --ci flag for npm outdated command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/619) - @khalyomede
- @wraithgar
  - this makes a lot of sense
  - should bikeshed the name (the name is confusing for sure)
  - should consolidate the flag for exit code
  - if we change the defaults we still need the flag
- @ljharb
  - wish the default resukt for all commands respected old shell idioms

#### **PR**: [#618 RFC: &#x60;npm debug&#x60; command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/618) - @about-code
- @wraithgar
  - this seems like a new lifecycle script
  - on the `bin` changes, we'd need to rethink this
  - need more signals between `exec` & `run`
- @ljharb
  - making debugging sounds valubale
  - should be able to just set the environment variable to acheive this
- @ruyadorno 
  - trying to set some default behaivour for this new `npm debug` command which is not great (`start` is also confusing for some folks)

#### **Issue**: [#610 [RRFC] Parallel script execution when value is set to an array of text.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/610) - @EvanCarroll
- ...

#### **PR**: [#595 Propose backwards-compatible improvements to compression](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/595) - @EvanHahn
- ...

#### **PR**: [#593 Only Registry Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/593) - @thescientist13
- ...

#### **PR**: [#23 Add Singleton Packages RFC.](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/23) - @usergenic
- ...
